---
pdf: Neubauer_2015_seminar-UoC.pdf
tags: philipp, fisheries, dragonfly, presentation
---
Globally, roughly two-thirds of exploited fish and invertebrate populations are
thought to be below target limits, with a large number near critical limits.
Deterministic population models for fished populations suggest that recovering
populations should be as easy as scaling back fishing effort. Yet, some stocks
seem to defy this logic, and a large number of theoretical and empirical
studies have attempted to describe factors that may prevent populations from
recovering. In this seminar, I will first present some basic ideas and theory
about exploited populations and their recovery from near-critical levels. I
will then present the framework and results from a global meta-analysis that
attempted to establish how well populations conform to theories of recovery.
For this analysis, we described over-exploited populations using a stochastic
process framework, and treated them as ailing patients. Using survival analysis
methods commonly employed in medical studies, we assessed the chance of
recovery under a number of conditions. Although our results suggest that the
predictability of recovery was strongly negatively affected by very intense
fishing prior to recovery, we also showed that for moderately over-exploited
stocks, recovery is often faster than expected. To put these results into
context, I will discuss some theoretical arguments that suggest possible
mechanisms for resilience in exploited populations - and mechanisms that may
impair long term resilience in the face of continued high exploitation. The
former need to be promoted in management systems to enhance the sustainability
of fisheries in the long term.

