---
pdf: Richardetal_2015_albatross.pdf
tags: dragonfly, seabird, yvan, edward, article, bayesian
---
Demographic rates, such as annual survival rate, are generally difficult to
estimate for long-lived seabirds, because of the length of time required for
this kind of study and the remoteness of colonies. However, a small colony of
northern royal albatross (*Diomedea sanfordi*) established itself on the mainland
of New Zealand at Taiaroa Head, making possible regular banding and monitoring
of its individuals since the first chick fledged, in 1938. Data on the
presence/absence of birds, as well as on breeding outcomes, were available for
the period from 1989–90 to 2011–12, and included 2128 annual resightings of 355
banded individuals of known age. The main goal of the present study was to
estimate the annual survival rate of juveniles, pre-breeders, and adults at
Taiaroa Head. These rates were estimated simultaneously in a single Bayesian
multi-state capture-recapture model. Several models were fitted to the data,
with different levels of complexity. From the most parsimonious model, the
overall annual adult survival rate was estimated as 0.950 (95% CI
[0.941–0.959]). In this model, adult survival declined with age, from 0.976
(95% CI [0.963–0.988]) at 6 years, the minimum age at first breeding, to 0.915
(95% CI [0.879–0.946]) at 40 years. Mean annual survival of pre-breeders was
0.966 (95% CI [0.950–0.980]), and 0.933 (95% CI [0.908–0.966]) for juveniles.
There was no discernible difference in survival between males and females, and
there was no apparent trend in survival over time. Estimates of other
demographic rates were also obtained during the estimation process. The mean
age at first return of juveniles to the colony was estimated as 4.8 years (95%
CI [4.6–5.1]), and the mean age at first breeding as 8.9 years (95% CI
[8.5–9.3]). Because all the birds of the colony were banded, it was possible to
estimate the total population size. The number of northern royal albatross
present annually at the Taiaroa Head colony has doubled since 1989–90, and the
current total population size was estimated to be over 200 individuals. The
ratio of the total population size to the number of annual breeding pairs
varied from 5 to 12 among years, with an overall mean of 7.65 (95% CI
[7.56–7.78]), and this high variability highlights the need for a sufficient
number of surveys of seabird breeding populations before reliable conclusions
on population trends can be made. Although long-term data allowed estimates of
demographic rates of northern royal albatross at Taiaroa Head, the location of
the colony and the ongoing management by staff mean that the population
dynamics may differ from those of the main population on the Chatham Islands.


