---
title: Modelling the distribution of Maui’s dolphin
---

In June 2012, a risk assessment workshop was held to identify, analyse
and evaluate all threats to Maui’s dolphin in a review of the species
Threat Management Plan. Panellists included scientific experts as well
as representatives of the Ministry for Primary Industries and the
Department of Conservation.

<!--more-->

As part of the review, Dragonfly Science were asked to supply data on
fishing effort, a map of the dolphin's distribution and where the two
areas overlap. Their work appears in Appendix 2 of the report.

“The Maui’s dolphin population has been surveyed by a team from Otago
and Auckland Universities with systematic aerial and boat surveys over
the last ten years. The latest survey (2010&ndash;11) indicated that
as few as 55 individuals over one year of age now remain. That figure,
and another incidental catch in a set net off Taranaki, was the
catalyst to bring forward the review from 2013 to this year,” says
Finlay Thompson.

“We took the survey data, tidied it up, then systematically integrated
it into a single statistical model to predict the likelihood of seeing
a dolphin in a particular location. Yvan found that the Maui dolphin
population is concentrated between Port Waikato and the entrance to
Manukau harbour. This area has been closed to fishing since 2008.”

Maui’s dolphin are considered to be a subspecies of Hector’s dolphin,
and New Zealand’s smallest dolphin. A genetic test is the only
reliable way to differentiate the two species. The DOC New Zealand
Threat Classification System ranks Maui's dolphin as ‘nationally
critical’, the highest ranking category. Maui’s dolphin is also
classified as ‘critically endangered’ according to the IUCN Red List
Categories and Criteria.


Read more and download the report from the [Department of
Conservation.](http://www.doc.govt.nz/mauisconsultation)
