---
title: Reducing incidental captures of seabirds in inshore fisheries
author: johanna
---

In recent years, awareness of seabird bycatch in inshore fisheries has
grown considerably. A recent expert workshop run by the Department of
Conservation and Ministry of Fisheries, and attended by Dragonfly,
discussed bycatch reduction measures for inshore trawl and bottom
longline fisheries.

<!--more-->

In recent years, awareness of seabird bycatch in inshore fisheries has
grown considerably. Reporting by government fisheries observers
covers a small proportion of inshore fishing activity. However,
coverage has been sufficient to identify potential issues with
protected species bycatch, including seabirds, in setnet, trawl and
longline fisheries.

Department of Conservation and Ministry of Fisheries teams have been
working with inshore fishers for the last few years, to develop
management approaches to reduce seabird bycatch risks. This has
included holding workshops, distributing information to increase
awareness of seabird issues, employing port-based advisory officers,
documenting fishing practices, and recording fishers' use of devices
intended to reduce seabird captures.

For both trawl and bottom longline fishing methods, there is good
information on how to reduce seabird interactions.  However, almost
all of this originates from deepwater fisheries that involve much
larger vessels. Inshore vessels are smaller and have very different
styles of operation. This means offshore measures can be difficult to
transfer to inshore fleets.

In February 2012, Ministry of Fisheries and Department of Conservation
held expert workshops on inshore trawl and longline fisheries.  For
trawl fisheries, the goal of the workshop was to develop a protocol
for testing fisher-made bycatch reduction devices, to determine their
efficacy in reducing seabird interactions with trawl warps. In
offshore fisheries, the same issues received attention about 6 years
ago and are now managed using a combination of bycatch reduction
devices and fish waste management.  

(See our [Case
Study](http://www.dragonfly.co.nz/warp-strike.html) on warp strike
fatalities in offshore fisheries, and publications on managing trawler
waste). For longline fisheries, variation in practice amongst inshore
vessels means that documentation of current operations is needed
first.  Understanding operational patterns allows the development of
seabird bycatch reduction measures that minimise disruption to fishing
practices.

Dragonfly was invited to participate in the workshops due to our
familiarity with data on seabird captures in fisheries, and experience
analysing data from experiments on seabird bycatch reduction measures.
In addition, Johanna who attended for Dragonfly, has spent time on
bottom longline vessels.

Following the workshops, and with the cooperation of industry,
Department of Conservation and Ministry of Fisheries will roll out
device testing and data collection programmes at various times through
the year.

[Read more about this work](/work/2014-10-01-warp-strike). 

